2006 TDI, I believe the engine code is
BRM, complaint is lack of power
black smoke out the tailpipe especially
going up a hill
so obviously first thing I did was
drive it and verified the complaint
funny enough there were no codes stored
you would think that with a power loss issue
especially when it gets to the point
where you notice the power loss
that a code would be present, but not in this case
so as you can see I have the engine RPM
boost pressure "desired" what the computer is commanding
and boost pressure "actual"
millibars, snap-on scaling has got that
auto correcting or auto scaling, so these peaks might
look similar in terms of behaving
according to what the ECM says
or wants but as you can see here the scaling
on here the highest point it was 1600 millibars
where as the computer or ECM
is actually commanding up to 2040
millibars
let me just see if I can get the cursors going
so let's just pick a peak here, you can also see
when the ECM is commanding
or is expecting boost as I'm accelerating
boost, you can see here, it hasn't even started
climbing yet and that's pretty much
the sensation that you feel you step on
the gas pedal and nothing's really happening
and it's only until engine speed increases
to the high RPM's when
you actually do feel a little pick up or boost
and then obviously you see me here these
are probably going through the shifts
1st gear, 2nd gear etc.
and then decelerating in terms rpm
and obviously once you
decelerate in rpm, the boost level
ECM commands it to go off
or doesn't need the boost so it cuts the boost level
...so the main complaint or thought
process here basically already is
the fact that had I don't hear the
turbo whistling
at lower speeds which is the quick spool because of the
not the wastegate, but the turbo vanes
you know how they're supposed to adjust to the narrow gap causing the turbo to spin
quickly at lower rpm... I don't hear that
so I already have my suspicion that
some is going on with the turbo vanes
and following video here's what I found:
BRM
TDI
complaint is lack of power, exhaust smoking
black smoke, no codes stored aside from intake flap motor, but no boost code
and when I data logged it, there was no boost
or there was boost, but it was slow to build
here's the turbo actuator
sits on the top on this one
you can see the turbo rod... when the engine is running
vacuum is applied here, and it's supposed to force the rod down
that's not happening.... so I'm just going to check it for vacuum here
I've got 17"... 18" of vacuum
so that tells me that the vacuum solenoid is good
the vacuum lines are good
so with vacuum supply being good...
the only thing left is
the diaphragm either is broken... or the vanes are stuck
so I'm gonna hook up the vacuum hose
see if I can pump it up
won't pump up... vacuum diaphragm is broken